I tested five weird B2B marketing
channels over 6 months and now I'm
reporting back on how much time and
money I spent and the revenue
[Music]
generated and why not join thousands of
Legends enjoying my weekday newsletter
for unusual BB marketing and SEO tips as
well as fresh podcast updates head over
to breing bb.com and hit the newsletter
tab all right let's dive into it so for
some context I set up breaking
bb.com we help B2B service and B2B Tech
and SAS companies with SEO and websites
for Revenue not vanity so we started the
business six months ago back in February
and at the time recording now with
August 2024 and I wanted to test out a
bunch of different channels to see what
kind of results we could get for them
the channels we tested were Cod email
Cod cooling guesting on Niche relevant
podcasts and I also tested a cold
Outreach agency and I'm going to dive
into exactly how much we spent in terms
of time cash and monthly recurring
Revenue Mr generated off the back of it
so let's dive into the six months worth
of experiments we've just collected the
results so the first channel we tested
was cold
email what was the offer well in our
case as were selling B2B SEO mainly we
wanted to Target SAS organizations
ideally ones that have had a bit of
funding Target their marketing leaders
like demand generation directors heads
of marketing marketing directors growth
directors and similar I didn't have a
lot of experience with Cod email so I
actually found someone on upwork that
was an expert paid them 600 bucks they
advised me to take out an Apollo
subscription which is essentially an
email sending system and much more more
that was 99 bucks a
month email warmup tool to basically
make sure that your emails stay warm and
active and help them not going to spam
was 46 bucks per month two domains so
two Google Suite domains was 30 bucks a
month and a send grid a tool that helps
with sending the emails 107 bucks a
month what was the offer well yeah we
targeted tech software SAS marketing
leaders went for something painfully
short so if you're watching on the video
we we had a subject line we did a small
sequence we got 1 2 3 four five emails
sent over 13 days the initial email very
short had a subject line of pipeline all
in lowercase to to try and Peak
curiosity and get that email open when
those exacts see that and it was very
straightforward it was first name so it
could be Steve or Sally it says most
marketing leaders tell me pipeline is
down I crafted a video with a different
idea to scale organic traffic and
qualified leads are you against taking a
peak and then PS click House of B2B SAS
saw 37% uptick in demos working with us
for organic search and then I just
signed off Sam Dunning founder breaking
B2B so no no links in that first email
and try to keep keep it super short
painfully short almost to try and get
folks curious just a very simple email
subject of pipeline all lower case they
might even think it's an internal email
encourage them to open it and then a
very clean simple offer offering
basically a loom video review of their
website with some SEO recommendations so
that was that and then there's a couple
follow-up emails in the sequence where I
just share them my my guide my btb SEO
guide ungated and then I also link them
a couple relevant podcast episodes and
videos and then towards the end ask for
if they do want the video or if they
want to organize a meeting or not so we
started that back in February so not
long after I started the company and and
the actual results or time spent rather
first and foremost we know the expenses
we just went through that time spent was
1 hour per week to actually build the
sequences schedule them to send on
certain times on each day and check the
two email inboxes for any replies and
then the time to actually craft to the
positive responses so that to the
marketing folks that we were targeting
that replied saying they would like a
video review about 15 minutes to review
their website check out the stats on
tools like hrfs and then craft them a
custom video with some recommendations
ideas around what we could do to improve
their SEO some unusual approaches and
then asking if they'd like to meet to
discuss further so results off that we
got six booked calls so quite low
considering the amount of emails that we
sent which was several thousand as we
warmed as we warmed up it got to about
200 per day we were sending there's six
but cools two deals on goinging in the
pipeline and one closed deal for 6.7k so
6,7
$100,000 per month and that was one back
in July of
2024 and what's the plan well I'm going
to keep it rolling we're only six months
into this so try it for another six
months because the overheads of the cold
email were pretty low and it doesn't
take that much time going to keep it
going to see how we do after 12 months
at the end of the year as we want a deal
that's easily paid for that with that
6.7k deal so that was channel one
channel two is cold cooling which again
I started when I started breaking B2B
February
why did I do it well I've actually
released a podcast episode and a video
episode so if you search the ultimate
cold cooling guide for dummies or if you
search if you're not watching and you're
listening search the ultimate cold
cooling guide for dummies breaking B2B
and you'll be able to find that podcast
episode or the YouTube episode and this
is a I think it's about a 22 minute
video breakdown where you can get all
The Insider tips but long story short
cold calling the reason I did it is I
found myself messing around on LinkedIn
for an hour or so most mornings and
thinking I could probably spend this
time a bit better instead of just
scrolling through the feed I could try
out calling in our case Tech marketing
leaders lead with the problem we fix see
if that problem resonates if uh and if
those folks are motivated to fix that
problem in our case competitors heading
above you in organic search results
stealing traffic inbound leads and mind
share so that was kind of the pitch that
we did we basically do a very
straightforward pitch when folks would
answer so marketing leaders would answer
the phone I'd say hey Steve or hey
Janice I'll be very up front this is a
sales cool not sure if you want to slam
the phone now or let me have 30 seconds
to share why I'd lead with the problems
we fix around SEO and websites and then
get into it start a conversation or not
and see if they're motivated to fix the
problem if it's a problem they really
want to solve um and if it's actually
worth us meeting to to discuss it
further or not so that was a a broad
overview of the offer if you want to
know the expenses we spent $30 a month
on the dialing systems the tool to
actually connect you at speed to a data
list so you don't have to manually dial
but that tool does it for you and then
about $2,000 for data so opted in Mobile
or cell numbers of those folks you
wanted to contact what the results so we
got 20 booked calls two of which are
still ongoing deals we won a one-time
project not a monthly project oneoff
project of 4.7k so $4,700 back in March
2024 and we also won a
5.9k monthly reoccurring SEO plan in
April so one monthly recurring deal one
and one one time project what was the
time spent anywhere between 1 to two
hours a couple days a week so didn't
always have time to do it if I had a
morning 3E I'd schedule one hour or so
to do some dials then the odd evening
I'd collect the data together so I had
it ready so I could just go ahead and
cool a bonus though as well as those
meetings and those deal
one the the folks that perhaps said the
timing was off or that weren't
interested I added to my newsletter so
my daily newsletter which is at breaking
bb.com and hit that newsletter tab a
bunch of those folks I basically said
sounds like timing's off but I actually
have marketing leaders like yourself
where I send a few emails a week with
unusual B2 marketing ideas SEO tips and
podcasts that you might like and a lot
of those said yes so I've got a bunch of
those I can nurture over time with the
email list um and what's the plan of
next steps well from the DAT it looks
like cold calling might not be the best
use of my time but I'll probably carry
on for three or so three or so more
months and see how we do based upon what
meetings and most importantly cash in
the bank Revenue gets driven number
three guesting on podcasts so
essentially I use the tool called listen
notes the website is listen notes.com
really good because you can quite
literally type in your Niche so in my
case B2B marketing but yours might be
account in it might be Finance it might
be something else so in our case I go on
go on to listennotes tocom I type in my
Niche btb marketing or SAS
marketing and
then if you're watching on video you'll
see me trolling through the site I can
literally filter the listings by the top
B2B marketing podcasts but you can do
this for your Niche wherever you've
searched you can actually see breaking
B2B up there the good thing about this
is it also lists the podcast name their
host if they're still active you can
click into each one and you can see if
they're are top rated show so I tend to
go for top 10% or top 5% similar if I
can and then what I'll do is I'll just
make sure they're active make sure the
podcast has had some episodes recently
and then I'll find out who the host
is I will send them a personalized
connection on LinkedIn something
painfully short in the personalized
connect request something like hey Steve
or hey s great work on the podcast or
had an unusual idea for your podcast are
you against a conversation question mark
something that's very simple painfully
sure opens up that Curiosity Gap most of
those will accept probably about 90% or
so accept that and they usually respond
like what the hell are you talking about
Sam and to which once they accept I'll
send them a customized loom video and
usually I'll start the loom video on
their LinkedIn page so it's kind of
builds fam familiar familiarity and then
I'll go across to probably their podcast
website or their own website and I'll
basically say look appreciate the work
you've done the podcast enjoyed this on
your recent episode pull out a nugget
from that and I'll say look I'm usually
invited on shows like yours to talk
about X or talk about Y in my case
unusual SEO ideas to drive revenue
revenue and avoid vanity metrics or or
websites that actually resonate in
convert dream clients and I'll basically
say are you up for having me on I'll
share some examples of podcasts I've
been on quickly and do a really short
and concise two-minute loom video which
I'll send to their DMS in LinkedIn and
that gets probably about a third of the
ones I do I get accepted onto shows and
if we go back to my breakdown sheet if
you're watching on video so with
guesting on podcast that's basically my
strategy go on to listen notes.com
search for my Niche search for shows
that are kind of Fairly popular pitch
their guests on LinkedIn with a
customized Lan
video expenses well my podcast setup
was3 to $4,000 but yours could be much
less I mean I'm using a DSLR I'm using a
sure uh professional mic I've got decent
lights but I've slowly upgraded this you
could start with a simple Logitech where
Logitech webcam and a simple mic which
could be a couple hundred bucks so it
shouldn't cost you too much so really
it's only my time so to do this maybe
one to two hours a week to find podcasts
and Pitch them with a custom video
approach and then maybe 40 minutes to 1
hour for each episode that we record I
try to do one to two guest episodes per
week at the moment what are the results
well most importantly I've guested
probably on 253 podcasts over the last 6
months five meetings off the back of it
five book cool for our website breaking
bb.com two deals one one 7,000 a month
deal which is one in May and won 6,000 a
month SEO deal which is won this month
in August 24 but as well as that so as
well as what we got there 13k monthly
reoccurring revenue from those two
deals when folks spend a lot of time if
they're listening to you on a on a
podcast or on a YouTube show their
time's almost dedicated really kind of
listening sinking in consuming that
information they're not scrolling the
feed like on LinkedIn or anything like
El they're they're quite tuned in so not
just the fact that this can get you
booked cools but more you can gain
things like followers on LinkedIn if
that's relevant to you people might
follow your podcast if you got one they
might check out a lead magnet if you
call that action in the in the show they
might subscribe to you somewhere else or
check out your newsletter so it's a good
way to not just get calls but build up
your audience and your Niche build up
trust and also nurture prospects and
just play that long term game where
you're building trust in your Niche and
your
industry so that's one of the reasons
I'll do it and my plan based on that
data is that I'm going to keep doing it
one to two guest podcasts not just for
the book calls as it's nice to get the
revenue off the back of that but also to
build up Authority in the niche which in
my case is SEO and websites for for B2B
Tech and service companies but yeah
highly recommend that if that's an
approach that you can do or maybe your
execs can do or your founder maybe can
take that approach if you're a marketing
leader a company maybe you can encourage
a Founder to get stuck into guesting on
Niche podcast and check out listennotes
decom and the fourth
one was a cold email agency so I wanted
to test out a team to see if a
professional team could do some kind of
managed cold email and some Outreach for
us we started that back in June we're
now at the end it was a three-month
trial how much did I pay well we
actually did a trade swap so I did a
3.5k USD SEO plan which we've been
delivering for them for the three months
and they've been doing our cold email
Outreach um basically a trade swap so
results we got six meetings so far it
finishes end of this month there is one
SEO deal so we've got one deal left in
the pipeline but no wins yet but it was
a trial it was one of those things where
I went into it thinking we'll try this
agency out see how it goes if not great
after 3 months we'll ax it if it is good
we'll keep it going but it looks like
we're going to ax that as the results
wer where we're at So based on those
four channels the total return has been
25.6 K so
25,600 USD monthly recurring Revenue Mr
plus a onetime 4.7k project on top what
were my costs well $312 a month on the
software and tools but that does exclude
the agency swap that we did on point4
for the 3mon Cal trial and also about
$2,000 spent for day L for cold cools
time invested roughly 10 to 12 hours per
week from my side so not a bad return
I'm fairly happy with those experiments
so uh 25.6 K pretty decent for six
months I'm fairly happy with that but
what I should add so these are all
experiments getting on to the fifth and
final segment of this episode These are
experiments on top of the usual channels
we use so these experiments I basically
went in with a hypothesis I think these
might work for where my target clients
hang out I think if we we build kind of
authority in the space or lead with the
problems we fix the impact of not fixing
it and how we resolve them um and
obviously with those plans Based on data
against each one is is where we're going
to go but yeah these are not the only
channels we run SEO is one of our main
channels so we rank well on Google for
terms like B2B SEO agency and SAS SEO
agency that drives us inbound calls
LinkedIn is a big one for us so if
you're watching on video I post all
kinds of stuff once once or twice each
day I've got around built up a network
of around 30k followers so I do things
like howtos breakdowns of how we've
ranked companies on Google I do funny
memes I do videos and one of my latest
experiments within LinkedIn itself is
I've done a ask the public Series so I
actually go up to towns and cities
nearby and I'll ask folks on the street
random questions around B2B marketing
like do you know what SEO is what makes
a great website what makes a terrible
website all these questions to get funny
reactions but thing is probably one in
10 people know what SEO is or know what
this stuff is and you get some really
sensible answers and the other folks
kind of get some quite funny stuff so
that was a a series that's hit fairly
well and but we do a lot of that kind of
stuff on LinkedIn I do a bunch of
entertaining try to be funny and some
educational content and that gets me
probably anywhere between two to three
to four qualified book calls per month
through Linkedin and as well as that of
course this break B2B podcast on YouTube
and on Apple Spotify and elsewhere and
we run the weekday newsletter over at
breaking bb.com again to nurt prospects
stay top of Mind entertaining content so
when folks need btb SEO
websites where we try to stay top of
mind and there we have it a bit of a
different episode where I share what
we've been up to in the last 6 months of
breaking B2B testing some unusual and
stranger B2B mark marketing channels
along with the results oh and if you
haven't yet why not join thousands of
Legends enjoying the weekday newsletter
for more SEO and unusual B2B marketing
tips as well as podcast updates head
over to breaking bb.com and hit that
newsletter Tab and with that I'll catch
you on the next one cheers
[Music]